-------------------------------------------------------------

🧾 vRA Rebuild & Restore Process — When Backups Are Available
1️⃣ Objective

To rebuild and restore a vRealize Automation (vRA) environment using existing appliance and database backups after an appliance failure or corruption.

2️⃣ Prerequisites
Item	Details
Backup Type	File-level or VM-level backup (verified and consistent)
Backup Components	vRA appliances, vRO, and vIDM (if external)
Backup Tool	e.g., Veeam / Commvault / Rubrik / NetBackup
OVA Files	vRA Appliance OVA, vIDM OVA (if needed)
Network Details	IPs, DNS, NTP, Certificates, LB info
vCenter Details	Cluster, Datastore, Hosts
Reference Docs	Build SOP, Backup SOP, Architecture Diagram
3️⃣ Process Flow (High Level)

1. Verify Backup Integrity → 2. Deploy Clean VMs → 3. Restore from Backup → 4. Validate Services → 5. Post-Restore Configuration

4️⃣ Detailed Steps
Step 1: Verify Backup Availability

Confirm the latest successful backup from the backup team.

Validate:

All vRA nodes and vRO/vIDM backups are present.

Timestamps match (taken when environment was stable).

Backup restore test previously passed (sanity verified).

Step 2: Prepare for Rebuild

Ensure same IP, FQDN, and hostname as the original appliances.

Confirm DNS and reverse lookup resolve correctly.

Validate required network/firewall ports are open.

Ensure vCenter datastore and resource availability.

Step 3: Deploy Clean vRA Appliances

Deploy new VMs from vRA appliance OVA (same version as backup).

Assign the same IPs, hostnames, and DNS entries as before.

Power on appliances and verify network reachability.

ping <vra-node-fqdn>
nslookup <vra-node-fqdn>

Step 4: Restore from Backup

Engage backup team to initiate restore from latest valid backup.

Restore all vRA nodes simultaneously (if multi-node cluster).

Restore external components (vRO / vIDM) if applicable.

Confirm backup software logs show restore completed successfully.

💡 Example: For Veeam, the restore type is “Full VM Restore to Original Location”.

Step 5: Post-Restore Validation

Once restore is complete:

a) Validate Appliance Services
vracli cluster status
vracli cluster health
kubectl get nodes -A


✅ All nodes should be “RUNNING” and “Healthy”.

b) Check vRA UI and VAMI Access

VAMI: https://<node>:5480

vRA UI: https://<vra-fqdn>

Confirm login with system or vIDM credentials.

c) Check vRO Integration

Access Control Center:
https://<vra-fqdn>:8283/vco-controlcenter

Validate workflows are available and operational.

d) Check vCenter Endpoint

In vRA → Infrastructure → Endpoints → vCenter

Test connection.

Confirm compute resources and templates visible.

e) Check vIDM Authentication

Validate login via vIDM (if external or embedded).

Confirm directory sync and identity sources are intact.

Step 6: Validate Key Integrations
Integration	Check	Expected Result
ITSSP	API token refresh & service test	Successful
Cosmos	Workflow trigger test	Success
Notification services	Alerts and events	Working
Step 7: Verify Cluster and Services

Check load balancer health status (all nodes healthy).

Validate:

vracli cluster members
vracli status


All pods and services should be in “RUNNING” state.

Step 8: Final Functional Validation

Perform quick test provisioning:

Deploy one test VM from catalog.

Verify request lifecycle completes successfully.

Execute Day-2 operations (power off/on, delete).

Step 9: Closeout

Document successful validation.

Update rebuild log with date/time and responsible engineers.

Notify stakeholders that environment is restored.

5️⃣ Troubleshooting (Common Restore Issues)
Issue	Root Cause	Resolution
Cluster unsynced	Node mismatch or version drift	Check vracli cluster join and sync version
vRA UI down	Service not started	Restart vRA service / vracli service restart
vIDM login fails	Cert mismatch or NTP issue	Sync time & verify cert validity
vCenter endpoint error	Credential or DNS issue	Update endpoint credentials / fix DNS
✅ End Result

vRA environment restored to last known working state.

Cluster operational and integrations functional.

All appliances healthy and verified.
