-----------------------------------------------------------------

🧾 vRealize Automation (vRA) Rebuild Process – Scenario A (Restore from Backup)
1️⃣ Objective

This procedure details how to rebuild the vRA environment when appliances are restored from NetBackup snapshots following corruption or loss.
The goal is to restore VM availability, rejoin nodes into the cluster (if required), validate vRA services, and restore integrations (vIDM, vCenter, Cosmos, ITSSP).

2️⃣ Prerequisites
Requirement	Description
Backup Validation	Confirm the latest valid NetBackup snapshot backup exists for each vRA VM.
Access	Ensure vCenter, NetBackup Console, and vRA credentials are available.
Details Required	Server Name, Date of Backup, Destination vCenter, ESXi, Datastore, New Display Name (optional).
DNS Entries	FQDN and IP entries for all nodes should exist and resolve correctly.
Certificates	Ensure latest SSL certs (for 443 and 5480) are available, if restoration invalidates them.
NTP	NTP must sync correctly for cluster validation.
3️⃣ VM Restoration Process (NetBackup)

(Performed by Backup Team on request from VMware Operations)

Verify Backup Type

In NetBackup Console → Activity Monitor, confirm VM has a Snapshot backup.

Note the backup date and job ID.

Initiate Restore

Navigate to Backup, Archive and Restore tab.

Select the correct backup and click Restore.

Restore to Alternate Location

Choose Restore to alternate location option.

Enter new display name (e.g., vrasvr41p_restore) if restoring to test before final cutover.

Run Pre-Recovery Check

Validate that pre-check passes successfully.

Start Recovery

Click Start Recovery and wait for restoration to complete.

Post-Restore Validation

Windows/VMware team powers on restored VM.

Verify console access and network connectivity (ping, DNS).

Handover

Backup team provides restored VM name and completion confirmation.

4️⃣ vRA Appliance Rebuild Steps (Post-Restore)

Once the restored appliances are available and booted, follow these steps to rebuild operational functionality.

4.1 Basic Validation

On each node:

vracli status
vracli cluster health
kubectl get nodes -o wide
kubectl get pods -A


✅ Expected:

All pods in Running or Completed state

Cluster nodes show Healthy

If not:

Run:

vracli cluster join <master-node-fqdn>
vracli cluster rebalance


Restart services if needed:

systemctl restart vami-lighttp
systemctl restart vmware-vpostgres
vracli service restart

4.2 Network and Certificate Revalidation

Confirm NICs, IPs, DNS, and routes are correct.

Test access:

https://<vra-node>:5480 (VAMI)

https://<vra-fqdn> (Main Portal)

Reapply SSL certificate via VAMI if invalid or expired.

4.3 vIDM (Workspace ONE Access) Integration

Access vRA via VAMI → Identity & Access Management

Check existing vIDM URL, credentials, and connection status.

If broken:

Re-establish integration with existing vIDM (import configuration or re-link).

Validate login via vIDM user.

4.4 vRO Validation

Access vRO Control Center:
https://<vra-fqdn>:8283/vco-controlcenter

Validate:

vco-app

vco-configure

vco-controlcenter
All should be RUNNING.

If not:

systemctl restart vco-app
systemctl restart vco-configurator
systemctl restart vco-server

4.5 vCenter Integration

Log in to vRA UI → Infrastructure → Endpoints.

Verify vCenter endpoint exists and status = Healthy.

If not:

Edit endpoint → re-enter credentials → Validate.

Confirm compute resources are visible under Cloud Zones.

4.6 Restore Automation Integrations (if needed)
Integration	Checkpoint	Action if Missing
Cosmos / ITSSP	Test API call to vRA	Recreate endpoint and token if invalid
AD / LDAP	Verify under Identity Providers	Re-add binding or test sync
Custom Blueprints / Projects	Check Cloud Assembly → Projects	Import content via backup or JSON export
4.7 vRA Cluster Validation

Run on any node:

vracli cluster status


✅ Expected:

All nodes RUNNING

Cluster sync = True

Replication and services = Healthy

If not:

Run:

vracli cluster join --force
vracli cluster rebalance

5️⃣ Post-Restore Validation Checklist
Check	Command / Action	Expected Result
Appliance Reachability	ping + nslookup	All nodes reachable
Service Status	vracli status	All services RUNNING
Cluster Health	vracli cluster health	Healthy
vRO Access	Web console	Working
vIDM Integration	Login test	Success
vCenter Integration	Endpoint validation	Healthy
Certificates	Browser access to 443/5480	Valid SSL
Automation Workflows	Trigger test blueprint	Success
Load Balancer (if used)	LB health check	All nodes up
6️⃣ Finalization

Update DNS or Load Balancer VIP (if restored on new VMs).

Verify NTP synchronization on all nodes:

timedatectl status


Inform relevant Ops and Application teams post successful validation.

Document the restore details in internal Confluence / SOP version tracker.

7️⃣ References

NetBackup Restore SOP (Backup Team)

vRA Build Document v1.0

VMware KB 77089 – vRA Recovery and Disaster Handling

vRLCM Operations Guide

✅ End Result

After completing this process:

Restored vRA appliances are booted, healthy, and clustered.

All integrations (vCenter, vIDM, Cosmos) are operational.

Automation services are functional without full redeployment.
